...η-ψ-

Fon WRITTEN TRANSLATION. 43

nable² defence. 2. My little son³ will have protection
enough, if you will remember that he is my4 son. 3. Ι

'have preserved the dignity of the state at my own pe-

culiar‘ risk. 4.. In return for the things that Ι have set
aside on your account, Ι ask nothing but⁶ protection for
my son. 5. Since this is 80, conscript fatherS, decide
⁷with care and ''with vigor ⁸on what concerns the safety
of the republic. 6. As long as Ι live,1 Ι will maintaiu
whatever-⁹ you decide upon, and l⁰by my own efforts will
carry into effect your decreeS. 7. You have a consul who
will obey your decreeS. 8: Ι commendto you the tem-
ples and shrines of the gods, which³ will have protection
enough, if you 11make your decision with care and with
vigor.

FOR WRITTEN TRANSLATION.
——o—

CHAPTERS 1.-1V.

60. 1. Ὀοῃεοτὶρῂῖειζὶιθτε, you know that Ι am never ,

free from the danger of death either² in the Forum, or²
in the Senam-house, or² in my own home, or² even in this
seat of honor3 but yet, whatever fate awaits³ me, Ι shall
endure it with equanimity,⁴ provided that by my efforts
safety is secured to you and to the Roman people.

2. For why should Ι not rejoice ⁵to have rescued you,
your wives, and your children from slaughter‚ and the
Vestal virgins from bitter outrage, even if the immortal
gods should will “that I am to suffer all pains and hard-
ships, and even death itself? Wherefore it ⁷belongs to

